"What's the difference between the two of you and me?"
We know that first is precious life.
Referecting this life is so precious.
So beautiful. So spacious.
It's much more spacious, much more precious than the
diamond of the same size of the body.
Size of the body. It's more precious.
Referecting like that. And why we have to reflect?
We didn't get this precious life without
any cause and conditions, without a good cause.
Therefore, feel happy in the job. At the same time, good determination,
courage, and commitment that I'm going to really
make this more meaningful. To benefit to myself,
to benefit for the others. What a gracious teacher
a Buddha had when he said in his teaching, "The dual purpose."
For following one's own purpose and for following the purpose of others.
That is the modem. That is the goal.
That is our hallmark.
How are we going to activate it? Pause, of course. I move these two.
What do we have to do? Benefit to one's own self.
It's more important. Once you have that, the second goal
is to benefit to the others. With the intention level,
you can keep that. Always, from the very beginning, to benefit for others.
But actively level, follow our capabilities.
We discussed that really, and of course,
you all know this very much, that.
As I said the other day, we remind each other of this
kind of challenging, difficult times, so that our time of
this kind of situation can transform me into the practice
of dharma, something rewarded, so we can be happy.
"Oh, I did all that situation, things that happened, but I really used
my sound so beautifully." I reward my growth
of the spiritual dharma realization. I use something.
That is a win-win situation, and we do that.
We will be happy, not going disappointed, all that.
Even we have difficult troubles. When we have the practice of dharma in the heart,
our wisdom is so beautiful. Our wisdom is growing.
Our wisdom is shining. The inbound wisdom shines so beautifully.
We can solve the problems, and they really bring more
creativity. Oh my God, beautiful activity of the benefit
of one's own selfishness to others. So therefore, this is what
we really remind each other, each time, for a short time,
every day, what we've been doing, and we will continue for a while.
So that is spiritual life. And the second is
in parliament. We went yesterday, too. I mean, you all know that.
In parliament, it is something that we have to go through. Everyone,
doesn't matter your reach, or your pull, or your learning, or unlearned,
you're very expert, or you're very beautiful, or you're
something very kind of luxurious, and skilled, and very kind of
uplift. Everyone is staying, standing,
and sitting on these impermanent situations.
But this is always changing.
But this impermanent is also a great advantage.
We use this rollercoaster. We can do the research on the
samsara, gain the great skills and methods,
expertise of our inner qualities, of loving kindness,
the compassion, the wisdom, so that we can help to the others,
benefit for all beings. We've become the beauty
and beacon of the samsaras. Every year, these samsara
are solely in parliament. As I said, surfing world.
Really, we use the skills. It's not going to barricade us in them.
That is not just on the disappointment subject, but it is
the window and the door of the progress and the development.
That is so wonderful. Beautiful. That's what all these
great masters, Buddha Shaptyamuni, everyone did.
That's what they become. They are actually one of the beautiful symbols
of love and compassion, kindness, respect to all living beings.
Just really truly, that's what they represent. That's what they talk.
That's what we try to follow as much as we can.
That is really what is this environment. And also that is
among four, you know, session. That's two, first two.
And British life in parliament.
And next one is cause and effect that are inevitable.
And then samsara has difficulty, challenges, difficulties.
These two are. That order of this, in many Mundo practices,
always mentioned, the third one is samsara.
Challenge of the samsara. But what we use,
what we practice of the short Mundo by His own Guru Ramaji,
the order is, that order is, part one is
cause and effect that are inevitable.
So I'm going to follow with that order. Even though it really
doesn't matter. I mean, it's nothing big. I mean, difference at all.
Just at all. But I follow with this as short
Hindus and stockings. So third is
cause and effect that are inevitable.
Now, so that means in a simple word,
every, I use word, what that is, is karma.
Teachings on the karma. What is
teachings on the karma? That was the gracious kindness
compared to his first teaching among
the four noble truths. Suffering truth and cause
of suffering truth. That is what it is.
Suffering truth and cause of suffering truth.
How the great teacher Buddha said, you must recognize
suffering truth. You must
give up or abandon the cause of
suffering truth. Suffering or
challenging and difficult is not arising by itself.
It has cause. It has conditions.
This is also that we see in the world
in samsara. So many beings we all
have different preachers, different
experiences, different lifestyles
and in different kind of places we say
it's all different. Why?
It's not somebody created according Buddhism.
It's all is one's own creation of the karma.
Karma is reflecting.
All cause of suffering truth reflecting as karma
and happening all this. This larger level
is known as Buddhism interdependent coordination systems.
Everything is connected.
Everything has cause. Everything has conditions.
This interdependent coordination
is what in the teaching many a time said.
All things, all plumbers are come from the cause.
That cause is told by the tathagalas.
Tathagalas. One who said that clearly
that is the great sage. One who said that
great sage. That's roughly translation.
What do we usually normally chant?
That is the teaching. Interdependent coordination.
All phenomena. What means all phenomena?
All phenomena, the samsara comes from the cause and condition
or interdependent coordination and all phenomena
in the manner comes from the cause and condition or interdependent coordination.
For that reason, great master Nagarjuna
said in his teachings that nothing
is arising with all the interdependent coordination systems.
Nothing is arising.
Whether it's samsara, whether it's nirvana.
What is interdependent coordination systems?
All is emptiness.
All is emptiness. So this related truth is nothing but
display of interdependent coordination.
How that interdependent coordination system arises
is also follow the same rhythm, even though it's display of the illusion of medical
but it follows the system exactly what cause is.
It follows the light and it follows the exactly result of that light.
Never changes. Not messing up that.
If cause in that, for example, if we blend it on the external level, every
speak, if cause is seed as apple seed
and blend the night soil part with the places, it will bring the
apple fruit.
When you blend the seed of the apple, it's not going to bring
the fruit of the orange. Never going to bring.
It's exactly. If that seed is part of the delicious with
soil area, particular night, it will bring the result golden delicious.
All the gala apples. But even it is exactly
that full. It's not mixing. Not changing it.
That's how the external law of the interdependent coordination
systems works. Brilliant. Of course, you all know that.
That just reminded me, all each of us.
And then in a level, everything is dependent again
with the same thing. Good cause
and will bring good result. Or good cause of the motivation
will bring good result. If it's bad
motivation, it will bring bad result.
So this, again, now we talk about, particularly talking about the karma.
That's something connected with our individualism.
This karma is again, as already I said, and you all
best know that, but again reminding me.
Where is karma coming from?
It's from the mind. It's not really coming from outside
anyway. It is from the mind.
And what kind of mind is? And mind is
again, great master and origin in teaching.
If the mind is anger, or mind
is ignorance, and mind is attraction.
If that, those kind of combination mind will
bring the unvirtuous.
Unvirtuous. So that means, unvirtuous.
Negativity. That becomes,
cause of suffering truth.
Negative emotions are the cause of suffering.
What kind of sufferings?
We know anger, or we know ignorance.
And when we are in an attachment, and with that combination,
with that motivation there, when it is reflected externally,
what it does? It hurts someone.
It disturbs someone. And not just disturbs
someone when it is reflected externally, but even
ourselves, one who is anger, one who is in great attachment,
one who is in great ignorance state, then we are
dilemma. That individual is dilemma. This individual is
confused. This individual is in dark state.
Dark state. And that reflect externally.
Then all the difficult troubles comes.
But that is known as creation of karma from the mind
of negativities. Our negativity,
mind, reflected verbally, physically,
to the someone who is of kind of targeted and did that.
According to the transistive of the negativities,
and then it hurts so many beings
that hurt. Now karma is not ended there.
That is the beginning, according to the Buddha's teaching.
It is the beginning. Beginning.
It is not ended there. It is the beginning.
And then it will be continued. It is like ripple,
waves of ripples that continually goes on and on.
And each time, different causes and conditions
clash with that and create more karma and then goes on
and on. That is known as negative karma.
So negative karma is nothing but
creation of our own mind.
Mind. And then, on the other hand,
the positives. Positives is also
a huge word, virtues and unvirtues.
Now the word. Now unvirtues is the, again,
result of the negative mind,
negative emotions. Virtues is, is then
result of the positive amount.
And what is the positive mind? Opposite of those
three. The ignorance,
attachment and angles. Opposite of them.
And when that means what?
Opposite of the ignorance is what? Versedums.
Opposite of the attachment is loving kindness
and compassion. And opposite of the anger is
again compassion, love. That is
all opposite of the attachment is detachment.
Opposite of the anger is
loving kindness and compassion.
And when the mind is in that state,
in that state that the beautiful attitude in our mind
and heart is reflecting that verbally,
physically, that is known as activity
of the virtues. It is going to benefit someone.
Loving kindness and compassion versus activity
is not going to disturb anyone. It will help.
But equally, love and compassion, activity guided by the wisdom
is just the right, perfect dosages. Whoever
needed help is not pushing, not kind of
imposing, but it is
perfect benefit. But that's what the reason, what Grace
kindness teacher, Buddha Chakra Muni said, "Do
help." Others are calling their readiness.
That you understand, right? We understand that.
Readiness. That means even if there is something good and special,
every kind of a little bushy, then it becomes not really benefiting.
Pity, it becomes resistible. Come. It's not accepting. You're not
actually really benefiting. Even our motivation is good and beautiful
thing, but every a bushy, every imposing, we are kind of opposing
that. Then it's not skill-forming. That was called
unskill-romance. Why that unskill-romance comes?
Because maybe we don't have enough
common sense, or we didn't use enough common sense.
Or maybe we didn't use enough on our intelligence, in
bonelessness. So therefore, do
help and support accorded readiness of others.
At the same time, what the gracious teacher, Buddha Chakra Muni said,
"Also, your capabilities. Even if there's something good and important
benefit, do your range of your own capabilities."
So that means what? When we help and support you
to someone else, we should be also always happy,
joy, peaceful, relaxed, calm, openness,
mind. With that state, if we help, truly then it becomes very
beautiful. Also, help and look like that, so beautifully
outward, accorded readiness. Then it kind of goes
on. Your readiness, your capability will be, our
capability will grow, and their readiness will grow, and indeed
you will do the proper, perfect ways.
Perfect way. So that is what really known as the
virtues. So now these virtues, the non-virtues, both
are best upon their own
motivations. The negative
motivation is then un-virtuous.
And the positive virtues is then
positive mind or motivation is then
virtuous. Now, when we are talking
about the virtues and the non-virtuous, then that's that of course
I think you will know that. There is not as
the
virtue, sorry, non-virtuous,
non-virtuous and
forbidden
non-virtuous or non-virtuous
and restricted non-virtuous.
So now I use three non-virtuous.
One is just a non-virtuous
and the other is restricted or forbidden
non-virtuous, two virtues. What that means?
Natural virtues,
natural un-virtuous, sorry, un-virtuous or
un-virtuous
that is universally proved with negativities
such as killing, stealing,
sexual misconduct, lying,
deceiving, slender, gossip
and covetousness.
No saying. And the violence is taught.
And completely closed our mind.
Those all known as
un-virtuous. Those all naturally un-virtuous.
Then I use the second terminology.
The forbidden un-virtuous
or restricted un-virtuous.
Those are such as what I have to give.
So many guidelines, rules.
Many of those are known as restricted un-virtuous.
Such as fully ordained monks
should not have upper known tools.
And also such as the Buddha used so many guidelines
of how the ordained monks
are going to eat. How they are going to sit. How they are going to
speak. And how they are going to choose even food.
Choose the food. For example, in the teaching always
this is just one example. Where you are eating food, we should
not move the food from one side
to the other side. So this side, where you are eating there,
whatever spoonful, porkful you put in your mouth,
not going to put that in the left side of this,
I'm sure you see this, and this side, and they put this other side
immediately moving pork, pork, pork. And then also for the opening
mentioned in the teaching, where you are eating, not speaking so loudly.
Loudly. Or even not speaking.
And food, so you should take food as medicines.
Food as medicines. Sustaining our bodies. Helping to our
cells of the body. All those, and how you
dress up your, of course there's not many dresses, but what you wear
loves, how you should dress. Those are all known as
restricted unvirtuous. Every
keep those perfectly is not unvirtuous.
But if we kind of against it, and we miss those things, kind of
ignore that, then it becomes restricted
unvirtuous. And that is similar, for example,
also in the laws, in the common laws, there is so many rules. When you
drive on the street, highways, some drivers say 55 miles
per hour. If you drive maybe 60, 85
miles per hour, that is then you've been beyond
the rules. Then you break the rules. Actually
reality level is nothing negative or anything like that. But
it has some reasons. They put the rules, 55 miles
per hour, or 65 miles per hour, or 75
miles per hour. Whatever they put, maintain that range,
then we are perfect. It's not now, uh, unvirtuous.
But if we break that rule, then we know police can stop
and they keep to get to us. That is, that is kind of like
similar, restricted, unvirtuous.
So this is what we are all known as, and
this is what, when we do those things, what happens, whether it is
a virtuous or non-virtuous, what it does? Then we create
the karma. It creates the karma. Then karma is not
just going to, whether it is a virtuous or non-virtuous, it creates the karma.
Even the smallest karma of action can be
resolved. And in the Buddha teaching
making, for example, small sparking
fire can burn, burn whole
areas. There we know, in the Buddha teaching making,
we see this so many times, those fires start from small
things, can be burned. And also even small things
can be hugely resolved, benefit, good things. So
therefore, what in the teaching said, even in the smallest things,
if it is good, shouldn't they ignore? Do that. Be happy
with that. Even in the smallest things and negatives, trying to
don't also kind of ignore, and trying to avoid that.
Avoid that. That, if we do that, then what is that?
That is known as mindfulness. Then we are keeping
perfectly. Everything is a bit of a perfect and a beautifulness.
Then when the karma is kind of rapid, it is not going to finish it.
But then, as I said, it is going to go on and on.
In the teaching said, the minimum karma
is going to go again and again 500 times.
At least minimum. It could go over
500 times the result. One thing we did,
one time we did, but it has a ripple effect of 500 times
minimum. Whether it is good or bad.
So this is the really hard. It is also not going to
karma is not, according to teaching, is not going to be experienced by anyone.
We cannot transfer that to anyone. We cannot share
that karma to anyone. Once, whatever we did, we will,
whoever did that, that individual experience
clearly, soundly, or clearly with sound
and brilliant with themselves.
Therefore it is for that reason, British teacher,
the teaching, karma will not be experienced
by the water, fire, wind, earth,
or cannot be transferred to anyone. Always, it comes
to one's own self. The truth. It will come back to the dual
itself. This helping could take so many years,
so many years, but when the conditions are perfect,
it will materialize exactly that.
And for that reason, what again Buddha said in one of his teachings,
to be told, oh, to be told to his disciple kings,
oh great king, when you leave this world,
nothing your retinues or your
lecturers will follow, except only the garment.
Karma will follow with you. What does that mean?
Our body is left behind when we die, for example.
Body is behind. It's gone. But what is
developed, who is going to take rebirth? It's consciousness.
So karma is combined with consciousness.
Consciousness, it will go. And then it will go,
as he said. It could be happened next lifetime, or
up to two times, or maybe many lifetimes, but it's truly
it will happen. Unless we start to purify,
recognize the purify. Then in the teachings,
if you start doing the purification practices, according to the
teaching method, whatever you method we use, it will lighten the karma.
It will lighten the karma as much as you do practice, and then can clear
with all the karma. But otherwise, it will wrap in,
it will come on that anxiety to dual
itself. We're never going to
escape that. So that is my
brief talk. And karma is, again,
is what? Suffering truth.
Karma is suffering truth.
All truth of troubles, truth
of challenges. And what is the cause
of, whether we use technology, trouble, challenges
or suffering, cause is negative emotions.
Or positive thought
as it started from our mind.
Therefore, always it's kind of thoughtful with our actions.
Whether it's big and small, we thoughtful if we do that. That is also known
as discipline, gentle and peaceful.
Very beautiful, gentle, peaceful manner. So always
beautiful. It is a gentleman, it is a gentle lady.
It's good, it's an ornament. Of course, all different
ornaments we have in the world. For when we are gentle, peaceful,
mindful, more thoughtful, that is true,
the beautiful ornament. That will be admired according to the brother teaching.
Even the gods, gods in Heavens,
they will admire that. Even the non-wizard wings, they will admire
that beautiful, gentle, peaceful attitude.
And that's the story of that ancient time.
Two poor friends. Poor friends, it's a long time.
Those are the former life stories of the Buddha Chacamuni. Always at the very monasteries
they have those illustrations. I'm not going to talk about all those things.
You all know. That is how we, this poor friend becomes so
beautiful, so friendly and harmony, peaceful. Not just
they become so harmony, peaceful, but all areas become so harmony,
so peaceful. There are timely seasons,
raining timely, winters are coming timely, or seasons are coming
all timely. The whole climate is really changed in the teachings
said. And then in the Tushida Heaven, the gods will see
these things, what beautiful things happen in some sort of world.
So how that happened all that in the many gods, all those are the reasons
of these poor friends, so harmonizing, so peaceful. That
energy is spreading everywhere. Now everything becomes so
perfectly beautiful. Perfectly beautiful. It's just so
harmonizing everything, kind of calm, peaceful, gentle. Seasoning
everything perfectly. And for example, this time there's so many
common nature and disasters. One after another happened because it's also our
old kind of emotions, the rolling costs, and
thinking of all different things. It also can be reflected to
echo the great city of Buddha Shakyamuni and other great masters too.
So therefore, our love and kindness, compassion, good attitude
is also great distribution of contribution to the
climate change and the environment level. And that's my
reminder, and thank you very much everyone again for participating. And again,
we see you tomorrow. Now we do the second, our
meditation. Thank you everyone.